[MUSIC]
When you program, you need to program in
some kind of a programming environment
that roughly means the Arduino IDE, so
with Arduino earlier on in this
specialization, we used the Arduino IDE.
So that's a programming environment.
Basically, that minimally entails some
kind of a text editor where you can
type your code in.
Also either a compiler or
interpreter based on the language.
With Python, we'd be looking for
an interpreter of some kind.
So that's sort of minimally what
a programming environment involves.
So, with this Raspberry Pi,
we've got basically two types of
programming environments that we can use.
One is some IDE,
integrated development environment.
So an IDE is basically one tool that puts
the text editor and the interpreter and
other things you might need
together into one tool.
Like the Arduino IDE,
that was an IDE, right?
Integrated development environment.
People like IDEs.
There are several IDEs you can use,
Eclipse is a common one for
free, there are a lot of IDEs.
So you can use an IDE, or, oh, and for
us, since we're doing this in Python,
the IDE that we will end up using is IDLE,
I-D-L-E.
That's a default IDE with Python,
the first one.
When you get Python installed
on any machine it has IDLE.
IDLE's a nice simple IDE, it's convenient.
So you can use an IDE or, oh,
well actually, first how you invoke IDLE,
if you wanna invoke that.
You can go a menu, so
if you look in at, so
I'm assuming right now that
you got a Raspberry Pi.
And you got the desktop running, right?
So you got the graphic interface.
Up in the upper left hand
corner there's a Menu button.
So if you go to Menu >
Programming > Python,
there'll actually be two options there,
there's Python 2 and Python 3.
Go for
Python 3 cuz that's what we want to run.
So you select that and
that'll start the IDLE IDE.
Now, if you don't happen
to wanna use an IDE for
some reason, I recommend an IDE for
now, but if you don't wanna use an IDE,
another way to do is to use a text
editor and an interpreter separately.
So you can run any old text editor like
Nano or Pico like we used earlier.
You can open that up, type in your code,
save it, then after you saved it
and my example I'm calling it test.py, .py
is a common suffix for Python programs.
So let's say I call it test.py
when I save it in my directory.
Then in the terminal, in my shell,
I can type Python 3 test.py and
that will execute the script.
So that's another way to go about it.
You can just use the tools,
you can use them integrated in IDLE,
an IDE like IDLE, or
you can use the two things separately.
Any text editor you want
plus the interpreter.
We're going to, throughout this module,
anyway, we're going to use IDLE,
we're gonna assume the use of IDLE.
Of course, sometimes it's useful to
do the separate text editor method,
because that allows you to get into
super user mode sometimes, so for
some things,
we'll see this in the next module.
There's some programs where you need to
have permissions as root to
actually execute the code and for
that you need sudo, s-u-d-o,
sudo command at the command line.
So for that it'll be useful to do
separately at the command line but
now let's assume that we're using IDLE.
So we assume we're using IDLE and
we're using Python 3.
All right, so IDLE, so
say you want to execute Python code,
you want to execute it, there
are basically two ways to execute code.
In IDLE, actually in general.
Execute Python code, specifically.
You don't have this option with a C or
a compiled language, but in Python you do.
You have interactive or
what I'll call batch.
Interactive is where you type in
the lines of code one at a time.
And so
that's what you're seeing at the top left,
that window that you see
in the top of the slide.
That's showing an interactive mode,
right, in IDLE.
It's showing IDLE's interactive window,
and there's a prompt that's circled there.
And that prompt is just saying look,
after this prompt you can type.
So you type in whatever the Python command
is that you wanna execute, you hit Enter,
and it will execute that command and
print out any results.
And then it'll give you a new prompt,
okay?
It's like a little terminal.
It's like a shell.
In fact, it is a shell just for
executing Python code.
So that's the interactive way.
Now, that's convenient for
trying things out,
but eventually, you wanna write a big
piece of code and run it all at once.
So after you tweaked it and
tuned it, then you wanna run it all at
once, as a traditional program would.
So that would be batch mode,
and with that,
you just write the whole
program in one file, and
then you just execute that whole thing,
and I'll show you how to do that too.
We'll be doing both.
Mostly we'll be going with batch, but
interactive is useful just
to experiment with things.
So if you wanna do interactive
execution you need a Python shell.
So how do you get a Python shell?
If you start IDLE, the shell is default.
The window that opens is the shell.
That's what you see up in the window
that you see on top of the slide.
That's basically the window that you get.
Something that looks like that.
So just start IDLE and
you'll get an interactive shell.
And you can type in your instructions.
Now, if you want to do that and get
an interactive shell, Python Shell, and
you want to do that from the terminal
window at the command line,
then you would just type Python 3.
And it'll start an interactive shell for
you right there in the terminal.
In LX terminal, rather,
if you're using that terminal window.
Okay so, let's say you wanna
execute entire programs
in batch mode in IDLE, right?
So you wanna, instead of just executing
one line at a time that you type in,
you wanna write a whole
lot of lines of code and
then just execute them, and
you wanna use IDLE to do that.
So, what you do is, you start IDLE.
Then you make a new file.
So, File > New File,
it creates a new window like the one that
you see here up in the top of the slide.
And in that window,
you can type in your code.
So you type in your lines of code.
Now I got a few sample
lines of code there,
from some random program
that I wrote at some point.
So you type in your lines of code.
Then, once you type them in,
then when you wanna run it,
you select Run under that highlight
that I've circled in red.
You select Run > Run Module.
Run module is an option under there.
And that will interpret it and
start running it.
So that will pop open a Python shell and
it will execute that
code inside the shell.
So that's how you run batch mode programs
in IDLE, and we'll be doing that a lot.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]